Messenger configuration docs (#178)
mautic/user-documentation: docs/configuration/settings.rst

Default frequency rule
======================

> * **Do not contact more than <number> each <period>** - This limits the number of Marketing Messages a Contact receives in a certain period of time day, week, month. Transactional messages don't count towards this limit. You can adjust this at the individual Contact level, either manually or by Preference Center setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. vale off

* **Do not contact more than <number> each <period>** - This limits the number of Marketing Messages a Contact receives in a certain period of time day, week, month. Transactional messages don't count towards this limit. You can adjust this at the individual Contact level, either manually or by Preference Center setting.

.. vale on

```

  :alt: Screenshot showing Company Merge Settings Configuration in Mautic

* **Merge by unique fields with operator** - You can determine which operator to use when merging fields if there is more than one unique identifier.

Queue settings
****************

Purpose of the queuing
======================

Mautic can optionally use a queuing mechanism for sending emails. This feature is essential when Mautic is run **at large scale**. There will be more tasks that can utilize queuing in the future.

> 

Reviewer: Vale fixes

```suggestion
Mautic can optionally use a queuing mechanism for sending Emails. This feature is essential when Mautic running Mautic **at large scale**. It's planned to extend the tasks that can utilize queuing in the future.
```

When you enable queuing, emails are no longer sent immediately (e.g. within HTTP requests)

> but put in a queue and sent later using queue consumers (also known as workers). Using consumers help offload workload of your webserver and allows easier scaling of your instance.

Reviewer: Vale fixes

```suggestion
When you enable queuing, Emails are no longer sent immediately - for example, within the browser.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but instead, Mautic places them in a queue and sends them later using queue consumers - also known as workers. Using consumers helps to offload the workload of your server, and allows easier scaling of your Mautic instance.```

The queuing is disabled by default
==================================

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mautic doesn't use queues by default
====================================
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
====================================
```

After installing a fresh instance of Mautic, **the queuing feature is disabled** (the queue DSN is set to ``"sync://"``) as shown in the following screenshot.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing a fresh instance of Mautic, **queues aren't used** (By default, Mautic has the queue DSN set to ``"sync://"``) as shown in the following screenshot.
```

Reviewer: This one looks to be missed also.

.. image:: images/queue-disabled.png
  :width: 600

>   :alt: Queue is disabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :alt: Queue is turned off
```

Reviewer: This one too?

How to enable the queuing
=========================

First you need to choose what technology (queuing transport) will drive your queue. The are several options available at the moment. It is up to you to choose which one fits your needs the best.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First you need to decide on a queuing transport to drive your queue. There are several options available at the moment. It's up to you to choose which one fits your needs the best.
```

Reviewer: This one hasn't been applied yet.

**Currently available transports:**

* :ref:`Doctrine`
* :ref:`Redis`
* :ref:`AMQP`
* :ref:`Beanstalkd`
* :ref:`Amazon SQS`

Doctrine
--------

> This transport is easy to setup as it does not require installing any additional extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This transport is easy to setup as it doesn't require installing any additional extension.
```

Reviewer: This one's still outstanding?

It uses database table ``messenger_messages`` for storing messages (the table name can be changed via options). The screenshot below shows the basic settings.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It uses database table ``messenger_messages`` for storing messages - the table name can be changed via options. The screenshot below shows the basic settings.
```

.. image:: images/queue-doctrine.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Example of Doctrine transport

> See `https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#doctrine-transport <https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#doctrine-transport>`_ for the complete list of configuration options.

Reviewer: Please use the command `make link` in the docs folder, and properly create an x-ref here. Be sure to commit the link file too! Thanks!

Redis
-----

> This transport requires the Redis PHP extension (>=4.3) and a running `Redis <https://redis.io/>`_ server (^5.0). Once these requirements are met, the typical configuration looks as follows.

Reviewer: Please use make link to properly create the link here, too.

.. image:: images/queue-redis.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Example of Redis transport

> See `https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#redis-transport <https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#redis-transport>`_ for the complete list of configuration options.

Reviewer: Please use make link here, too.

AMQP
----

> The AMQP transport requires the AMQP PHP extension and a running AMQP service like `RabbitMQ <https://www.rabbitmq.com/>`_. See the screenshot below for an example of the configuration.

Reviewer: Please use the existing rabbitmq link and replace the link here with the ```:xref:`RabbitMQ` syntax.```

.. image:: images/queue-amqp.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Example of AMQP transport

> See `https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#amqp-transport <https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#amqp-transport>`_ for the complete list of configuration options.

Reviewer: as above re. links

Beanstalkd
----------

> The Beanstalkd transport requires a running `Beanstalkd <https://beanstalkd.github.io/>`_ service and a composer dependency installed via ``composer require symfony/beanstalkd-messenger``.

Reviewer: Please use the existing link and use the ```:xref:`Beanstalkd` syntax.```

> After installing the composer dependency, you can fill in the configuration as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing the Composer dependency, you can fill in the configuration as follows.
```

.. image:: images/queue-beanstalkd.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Example of Beanstalkd transport

> See `https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#beanstalkd-transport <https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#beanstalkd-transport>`_ for the complete list of configuration options.

Reviewer: as above with the links

Amazon SQS
----------

> The Amazon SQS transport is ideal when your Mautic instance is hosted on AWS. You will need to install a composer dependency via ``composer require symfony/amazon-sqs-messenger``. See the example of the configuration below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Amazon SQS transport is ideal when hosting your Mautic instance on AWS. You need to install a Composer dependency via ``composer require symfony/amazon-sqs-messenger``. See the example of the configuration below.
```

.. image:: images/queue-amazon-sqs.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Example of Amazon SQS transport

> See `https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#amazon-sqs <https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#amazon-sqs>`_ for the complete list of configuration options.

Reviewer: as above with the links.

> How to consume messages from the queue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to consume messages from the Queue
```

======================================

> To start consuming the messages from the queue, you need to run the following Symfony command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start consuming the messages from the Queue, you need to run the following Symfony command.
```

.. code-block::

    php bin/console messenger:consume email

> If you don't use Kubernetes in your environment, use a process manager like Supervisor or systemd to keep your worker(s) running. More on this at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't use Kubernetes in your environment, use a process manager like ``Supervisor`` or ``systemd`` to keep your workers running. More on this at
```

> `https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#consuming-messages-running-the-worker <https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#consuming-messages-running-the-worker>`_

Reviewer: as above with links.

Advanced setting
================

Retry strategy
--------------

When the processing of a message fails, the message is sent back to the queue for another try. You can adjust this behaviour in this section.

> See `https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#retries-failures <https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#retries-failures>`_ for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the processing of a message fails, Mautic sends the message back to the queue for another try. You can adjust this behaviour in this section.
```

> See `https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#retries-failures <https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#retries-failures>`_ for more details.

Reviewer: as above with links.

The screenshot below shows the default values.

.. image:: images/queue-retry-strategy.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Retry strategy defaults

Queue for failures
------------------

> If a message fails all its retries, it's discarded by default. To avoid this happening, you can optionally configure a queue for failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a message fails all its retries, it's discarded by default. To avoid this happening, you can optionally configure a Queue for failures.
```

> For more details see the documentation on `https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#saving-retrying-failed-messages <https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/messenger.html#saving-retrying-failed-messages>`_.

Reviewer: as above with links

  :alt: Screenshot showing Company Merge Settings Configuration in Mautic

* **Merge by unique fields with operator** - You can determine which operator to use when merging fields if there is more than one unique identifier.

Queue settings
****************

Purpose of the queuing
======================

Mautic can optionally use a queuing mechanism for sending Emails. This feature is essential when running Mautic **at large scale**. It's planned to extend the tasks that can utilize queuing in the future.

When you enable queuing, Emails are no longer sent immediately - for example, within the browser
When you enable queuing, Emails are no longer sent immediately - for example, within the browser.
but instead, Mautic places them in a queue and sends them later using queue consumers - also known as workers. Using consumers helps to offload the workload of your server, and allows easier scaling of your Mautic instance.```
Mautic doesn't use queues by default
====================================

> After installing a fresh instance of Mautic, **the queuing feature is disabled** (the queue DSN is set to ``"sync://"``) as shown in the following screenshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A fresh instance of Mautic has **the queuing feature turned off** (the queue DSN configuration is ``"sync://"``) as shown in the following screenshot.
```

After installing a fresh instance of Mautic, **queues aren't used** (By default, Mautic has the queue DSN set to ``"sync://"``) as shown in the following screenshot.
.. image:: images/queue-disabled.png
  :width: 600

>   :alt: Queue is turned off

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :alt: Queue turned off
```

How to enable the queuing
=========================

> First you need to choose what technology (queuing transport) will drive your queue. The are several options available at the moment. It is up to you to choose which one fits your needs the best.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First you need to choose the technology - queuing transport - to drive your queue. The are several options available at the moment. It's up to you to choose which one fits your needs the best.
```

It uses database table ``messenger_messages`` for storing messages - the table name can be changed via options. The screenshot below shows the basic settings.
.. image:: images/queue-doctrine.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Example of Doctrine transport

See :xref:`queue-doctrine-transport` for the complete list of configuration options.

Redis
-----
This transport requires the Redis PHP extension (>=4.3) and a running :xref:`Redis` server (^5.0). Once these requirements are met, the typical configuration looks as follows.

.. image:: images/queue-redis.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Example of Redis transport

See :xref:`queue-redis-transport` for the complete list of configuration options.

AMQP
----
The AMQP transport requires the AMQP PHP extension and a running AMQP service like :xref:`RabbitMQ`. See the screenshot below for an example of the configuration.

.. image:: images/queue-amqp.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Example of AMQP transport

See :xref:`queue-amqp-transport` for the complete list of configuration options.

Beanstalkd
----------

> The Beanstalkd transport requires a running :xref:`Beanstalkd` service and a composer dependency installed via ``composer require symfony/beanstalkd-messenger``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Beanstalkd transport requires a running :xref:`Beanstalkd` service and a Composer dependency installed via ``composer require symfony/beanstalkd-messenger``.
```

After installing the Composer dependency, you can fill in the configuration as follows.

.. image:: images/queue-beanstalkd.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Example of Beanstalkd transport

> See :xref:`queue-beanstalkd-transport` for the complete list of configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. vale off

See :xref:`queue-beanstalkd-transport` for the complete list of configuration options.

.. vale on
```

Amazon SQS
----------
The Amazon SQS transport is ideal when hosting your Mautic instance on AWS. You need to install a Composer dependency via ``composer require symfony/amazon-sqs-messenger``. See the example of the configuration below.

.. image:: images/queue-amazon-sqs.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Example of Amazon SQS transport

See :xref:`queue-amazon-sqs` for the complete list of configuration options.

How to consume messages from the Queue
======================================

To start consuming the messages from the Queue, you need to run the following Symfony command.

.. code-block::

    php bin/console messenger:consume email

> If you don't use Kubernetes in your environment, use a process manager like Supervisor or systemd to keep your worker(s) running. More on this at :xref:`queue-consuming-messages`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't use Kubernetes in your environment, use a process manager like ``Supervisor`` or ``systemd`` to keep your worker/s running. More on this at :xref:`queue-consuming-messages`
```

Mautic doesn't use queues by default
====================================

A fresh instance of Mautic has **the queuing feature turned off** (the queue DSN configuration is ``"sync://"``) as shown in the following screenshot.
After installing a fresh instance of Mautic, **queues aren't used** (By default, Mautic has the queue DSN set to ``"sync://"``) as shown in the following screenshot.
.. image:: images/queue-disabled.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Queue turned off

How to enable the queuing
=========================

First you need to choose the technology - queuing transport - to drive your queue. The are several options available at the moment. It's up to you to choose which one fits your needs the best.
First you need to decide on a queuing transport to drive your queue. There are several options available at the moment. It's up to you to choose which one fits your needs the best.
**Currently available transports:**

* :ref:`Doctrine`
* :ref:`Redis`
* :ref:`AMQP`
* :ref:`Beanstalkd`
* :ref:`Amazon SQS`

Doctrine
--------
This transport is easy to setup as it doesn't require installing any additional extension.

> It uses database table ``messenger_messages`` for storing messages (the table name can be changed via options). The screenshot below shows the basic settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It uses database table ``messenger_messages`` for storing messages - you can change the table name via options. The screenshot below shows the basic settings.
```

> It uses database table ``messenger_messages`` for storing messages - the table name can be changed via options. The screenshot below shows the basic settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It uses database table ``messenger_messages`` for storing messages - you can change the table name via options. The screenshot below shows the basic settings.
```

.. image:: images/queue-doctrine.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Example of Doctrine transport

See :xref:`queue-doctrine-transport` for the complete list of configuration options.

Redis
-----

> This transport requires the Redis PHP extension (>=4.3) and a running :xref:`Redis` server (^5.0). Once these requirements are met, the typical configuration looks as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This transport requires the Redis PHP extension (>=4.3) and a running :xref:`Redis` server (^5.0). Once met, the typical configuration looks as follows.
```
